# Community-led call 31 July 2023

_Compiled by Max Sherwood from H2O Nodes:_

Governance discussion

* The GitBook should distill the core points from the telegram group&#x20;
* Michael’s goal is to have a framework to present at Block 0&#x20;
*
  * Some questions for the framework for a discussion (What are the big questions that need to be answered?)
  * Why do we need governance, who gets to vote, what do we vote on?
  *
    * Could discuss each one of these questions, then bring them together into one governance proposal&#x20;
  * What works / doesn’t work on other chains?
* Where should governance votes happen in relation to the release cycle of a feature?
*
  * Do we vote to implement a feature? Or begin building it? Or to activate it?
* How do we vote? People don't want to connect their withdrawal authority to the Realms UI…&#x20;
*
  * Once we have the mechanics for voting, we should have soft proposals to test out with
  * The question of “who is voting” will define the mechanics&#x20;
  *
    * Validators, RPC providers, dapp developers…?
    * Stake is supposed to represent user input (delegation)
    * In Cosmos, delegators can override the vote of their validator&#x20;
* Every proposal should follow a discussion period&#x20;
* Would be good to bring some network tweaking / parameters / constants onto on-chain governance votes
*
  * I.e. yolo flags
* Maybe by this call in August we should have discussed “who should be voting”
*
  * It’s hard though, because we dont have a concrete counterproposal&#x20;
  * Chris suggests we put a proposal and see if there’s any pushback
  * Dapp builders are devs, validators are not necessarily…&#x20;
* “What do we vote on” should follow “who should be voting”
